Windows 10 Upgrade Paths.
An ideal operating system upgrade is going to be one in which all applications,
data, and user preferences are maintained.
We just came out of a demo in which I upgraded from Windows 7 to Windows 10,
so you saw the bits in action, and you saw how the process works.
We're now going to look in retrospect, in a way,
and look at best practices for that process,
how upgrade happens in the enterprise, and we'll also look at migration.
The Windows 10 Upgrade Paths here.
Now this is taken from the Microsoft literature.
The URL for this is in your exercise files,
and this simple table shows it's part of a fuller table that's at the
Microsoft website that shows you different Windows 8.
1 editions and whether you can do a full in-place upgrade
migrating all personal data settings and applications,
and normally the way it works is that corresponding
versions work just fine together, so you would expect that Windows 8.
1 Pro can upgrade to Windows 10 Pro just fine,
and you'll notice that you can move up the SKU ladder,
though maybe your business is growing, and right now you're users have Windows 8.
1 Pro, but you want them to wind up with Enterprise.
The theme here that I want to drill into your mind is to do your due diligence,
if you don't mind the alliteration.
Do your homework, and make sure that your upgrade path is supported.
That term supported is important because supported means that you can file a
support ticket with Microsoft and they'll actually help you.
Long story short,
a direct in-place upgrade is possible for Windows 7 and Windows 8.
1.
Now what if you're running Windows XP?
I don't know if you know this,
but Windows XP is officially a completely dead operating system.
It's out of support, it's gone, but nonetheless,
I'm always somewhat surprised to go in businesses and
see that they're still running it.
This is very dangerous because Microsoft is not updating
or issuing Windows updates for XP, so if for no other reason,
for security sake you need to get on at least Windows 7.
In that case, you would go from XP to 7 or XP to 8.
1, and then you could do an in-place upgrade to Windows 10.
Also remember that the Windows 10 Education and S editions are
specialized versions of Enterprise edition.
Enterprise is where you get everything but the kitchen sink.
It's intended for business; medium business,
large business specifically, and it's purchased on a subscription basis,
so the actual way you get an Enterprise license differs
from how you would with home or even pro.
For instance,
you're not going to be able to go into your local electronics store
and purchase a boxed DVD of Enterprise Edition.
Here's another table.
Let's just take a quick look and see if this makes sense here.
This deals with how you would get a license.
There's various ways that you can license your Windows 10 edition.
Now if I were recording this training for you a year ago,
closer to the release of Windows 10,
you would be able to get a free in-place upgrade through Windows
update of a qualifying version of Windows,
namely Windows 7 or Windows 8.
1.
You would actually be prompted in the notification area,
would you like to upgrade to Windows?
That period has passed,
so now it's going to be a question of purchasing a
license from the Microsoft store.
This could be the electronic store on your computer or you
could go do a bricks and mortar Microsoft store if you
have one in your local mall.
This is going to be mainly for the consumer and small business environment,
and any kind of medium to large business you'll likely have a licensing agreement directly with Microsoft.